---
layout: post
title: "2024.11: Beta release notes"
description: "Beta release notes for Home Assistant 2024.11"
date: 2024-10-27 00:00:00
date_formatted: "November 6, 2024"
author: Franck Nijhof
author_twitter: frenck
comments: true
categories:
  - Release-Notes
  - Core
og_image: /images/blog/2024-11/social.png
---

<lite-youtube videoid="x" videotitle="Home Assistant 2024.11 Release Party"></lite-youtube>

{% note %}

**Welcome to the beta release notes for Home Assistant 2024.11** 🎉

<br />

Please note that these release notes are a work in progress. 👷‍♀️ We will be
completing them over the next couple of days. Not all features might be final
yet, and some features _**may not** make it into the final release_.

<br />

**Want to help test the beta?** Awesome! ❤️ We have documented how you
[can join our beta channel and install the beta here](/common-tasks/os/#running-a-beta-version).

<br />

While running the beta, we highly recommend joining our _#beta_ channel on
the [Home Assistant Discord chat](/join-chat)! 💬 Most developers and beta
testers are in this channel during the beta period to share experiences, ideas,
and iterate over new features, fine-tuning them before the final release.
It's a really fun place to hang out. 😎

<br />

**Reporting issues**: As this is a beta test, you might encounter unexpected
behavior or issues. 🐞 We use the GitHub issue tracker to track beta issues.
You can find our issue trackers and the reported issues during beta here:

<br />

- [Report(ed) beta **dashboards/UI/frontend** issues](https://github.com/home-assistant/frontend/milestone/125)
- [Report(ed) beta **integrations/automations/backend/core** issues](https://github.com/home-assistant/core/milestone/699)
- [Report(ed) beta **documentation** issues](https://github.com/home-assistant/home-assistant.io/milestone/132)

🙏 When reporting issues, **make sure to mention the exact beta version you are
running** in the issue description. This will help us identify and track the
issue correctly. Read more about [reporting issues here](/help/reporting_issues/).

<br />

Issues introduced in the beta are processed with priority. 🔝

{% endnote %}

{% tip %}

Don't forget to [join our release party live stream on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_X2-encNyrA)
6 November 2024, at 20:00 GMT / 12:00 PT / 21:00 CET!

{% endtip %}

Home Assistant 2024.11! 🎉

Enjoy the (beta) release!

../Frenck

<!--more-->

- [Sections dashboard now generally available](#sections-dashboard-now-generally-available)
- [Low latency cameras using WebRTC](#low-latency-cameras-using-webrtc)
- [Integrations](#integrations)
  - [New integrations](#new-integrations)
  - [Noteworthy improvements to existing integrations](#noteworthy-improvements-to-existing-integrations)
  - [Now available to set up from the UI](#now-available-to-set-up-from-the-ui)
- [Other noteworthy changes](#other-noteworthy-changes)
  - [Live logs](#live-logs)
- [Need help? Join the community!](#need-help-join-the-community)
- [Backward-incompatible changes](#backward-incompatible-changes)
- [All changes](#all-changes)

## Sections dashboard now generally available

Exciting news on thedashboarding front; the new sections type dashboards are
now marked as stable! 

This means that, as of this release, when you create a new dashboard, you
will get our awesome drop and drop experience!

## Low latency cameras using WebRTC

Lorem ipsum

## Integrations

Thanks to our community for keeping pace with the new {% term integrations %}
and improvements to existing ones! You’re all awesome 🥰

### New integrations

We welcome the following new integrations in this release:

- **[Husqvarna Automower BLE]**, added by [@alistair23]  
  Integrate your Husqvarna lawnmower using Bluetooth

[@alistair23]: https://github.com/alistair23
[Husqvarna Automower BLE]: /integrations/husqvarna_automower_ble

### Noteworthy improvements to existing integrations

It is not just new {% term integrations %} that have been added; existing
integrations are also being constantly improved. Here are some of the noteworthy
changes to existing integrations:

- The [Lorem ipsum] integration now supports slipsum! Thanks [@frenck]!

[@frenck]: https://github.com/frenck
[Lorem ipsum]: /integrations/lorem_ipsum

{% details "Potential changes to process" icon="mdi:scale-balance" %}

Processed up to _#129297.

- Add Light support for Switcher Runner S11 ([@YogevBokobza] - [#126402]) ([switcher_kis docs]) (new-platform)
- Add power sensor detection in fibaro integration ([@rappenze] - [#126964]) ([fibaro docs])
- Add support for room sensors in ViCare integration ([@CFenner] - [#125243]) ([vicare docs])
- Add hotwater storage sensors to ViCare integration ([@CFenner] - [#126570]) ([vicare docs])
- Add sensor for total installations and integrations to Analytics Insights ([@starkillerOG] - [#127248]) ([analytics_insights docs])
- Add sensors for gems and mystic hourglasses to Habitica integration ([@tr4nt0r] - [#127651]) ([habitica docs])
- Add work area sensors to Husqvarna Automower ([@Thomas55555] - [#126931]) ([husqvarna_automower docs])
- Add sensors to Omada ([@MarkGodwin] - [#127767]) ([tplink_omada docs]) (new-platform)
- Add audio feature sensors to Spotify ([@joostlek] - [#128785]) ([spotify docs]) (new-platform)
- Add Airzone Cloud main zone mode select ([@Noltari] - [#125918]) ([airzone_cloud docs])
- Add Airzone Cloud switch entities to zones ([@Noltari] - [#125917]) ([airzone_cloud docs]) (new-platform)
- Add 'select' to configure Schlage locks "Auto Lock Time" ([@mxr] - [#123758]) ([schlage docs])
- Add Meter Pro support to SwitchBot ([@bdraco] - [#128991]) ([switchbot docs]) (noteworthy)
- Add lock to switchbot_cloud ([@miterion] - [#115128]) ([switchbot_cloud docs]) (new-platform)
- LinkPlay multiroom support ([@silamon] - [#127862]) ([linkplay docs])
- Add more spotify sensors ([@joostlek] - [#129215]) ([spotify docs]) (noteworthy)

{% enddetails %}

### Now available to set up from the UI

While most {% term integrations %} can be set up directly from the Home Assistant
user interface, some were only available using YAML configuration. We keep moving
more integrations to the UI, making them more accessible for everyone
to set up and use.

The following integrations are now available via the Home Assistant UI:

- **[Local file]**, done by [@gjohansson-ST]
- **[Onkyo]**, done by [@Nebula83]
- **[Smarty]**, done by [@joostlek]

[@gjohansson-ST]: https://github.com/gjohansson-ST
[@joostlek]: https://github.com/joostlek
[@Nebula83]: https://github.com/Nebula83
[Local file]: /integrations/local_file
[Onkyo]: /integrations/onkyo
[Smarty]: /integrations/smarty

### Farewell to the following

The following {% term integrations %} are also no longer available as
of this release:

- **Bloomsky**. Their service shut down.
- **Google Domains**. The domain registration service by Google has been
  shut down.
- **Spider**. The service is no longer available.

## Other noteworthy changes

There are many more improvements in this release; here are some of the other
noteworthy changes this release:

- Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Sed non risus.
  Thanks [@frenck]!

[@frenck]: https://github.com/frenck

- Add snapshot service to image entity ([@NickM-27] - [#110057]) ([image docs])
- Blueprints for template entities ([@tetele] - [#126971]) ([template docs]) (noteworthy)
- Add limited template to at field for time triggers ([@Petro31] - [#126584]) ([homeassistant docs])
- Add `nmi` (nautical miles) as valid distance unit ([@mib1185] - [#124723]) (noteworthy)

### Live logs

A bit technical maybe, but if you need to view the Home Assistant logs, you
can now view those live! 

_**Insert recording of it streaming**_

## Need help? Join the community!

Home Assistant has a great community of users who are all more than willing
to help each other out. So, join us!

Our very active [Discord chat server](/join-chat) is an excellent place to be
at, and don't forget to join our amazing [forums](https://community.home-assistant.io/).

Found a bug or issue? Please report it in our [issue tracker](https://github.com/home-assistant/core/issues),
to get it fixed! Or, check [our help page](/help) for guidance for more
places you can go.

Are you more into email? [Sign-up for our Building the Open Home Newsletter](/newsletter)
to get the latest news about features, things happening in our community and
other news about building an Open Home; straight into your inbox.

## Backward-incompatible changes

We do our best to avoid making changes to existing functionality that might
unexpectedly impact your Home Assistant installation. Unfortunately, sometimes,
it is inevitable.

We always make sure to document these changes to make the transition as easy as
possible for you. This release has the following backward-incompatible changes:

{% details "A. O. Smith" %}

A. O. Smith now provides the hot water status as a percentage rather than low,
medium, or high. The hot water status entity has been updated accordingly.

([@bdr99] - [#127678]) ([documentation](/integrations/aosmith))

[@bdr99]: https://github.com/bdr99
[#127678]: https://github.com/home-assistant/core/pull/127678

{% enddetails %}

{% details "HomeKit" %}

Historically, many integrations implemented doorbells as binary sensors with a
device class of occupancy. This design was replaced with the new event entities,
which use a purpose-built device class of doorbell.

HomeKit will no longer automatically link binary sensors with device class
occupancy as a linked doorbell sensor. Linked doorbell sensors can continue
to be configured manually via YAML.

([@bdraco] - [#127668]) ([documentation](/integrations/homekit))

[@bdraco]: https://github.com/bdraco
[#127668]: https://github.com/home-assistant/core/pull/127668

{% enddetails %}

{% details "Litter-Robot" %}

Previously Litter-Robot could use have an off-state. This has now changed to
`docked` as `off` isn't a valid state for `vacuum` entities.

([@gjohansson-ST] - [#128297]) ([documentation](/integrations/litterrobot))

[@gjohansson-ST]: https://github.com/gjohansson-ST
[#128297]: https://github.com/home-assistant/core/pull/128297

{% enddetails %}

{% details "Netatmo" %}

The preset modes of the thermostat have been renamed in order to support
translations `Schedule`, `Frost guard` and `Manual` has been renamed to
`schedule`, `frost_guard` and `manual`.

([@piitaya] - [#128890]) ([documentation](/integrations/netatmo))

[@piitaya]: https://github.com/piitaya
[#128890]: https://github.com/home-assistant/core/pull/128890

{% enddetails %}

{% details "Updates" %}

State attributes of update entities have been changed:

- The `in_progress` state attribute is now always a `bool`, never an integer.
- A new state attribute `update_percentage` has been added. The
  `update_percentage` is a number between 0-100 if an update is in progress
  and the entity supports reporting progress, or `None` if an update is not
  in progress or an update is in progress but the entity does not support
  reporting progress.

Scripts, automations, custom frontend components etc. which consume the
`in_progress` state attribute of update entities need to be updated accordingly.

([@emontnemery] - [#128877]) ([documentation](/integrations/update))

[@emontnemery]: https://github.com/emontnemery
[#128877]: https://github.com/home-assistant/core/pull/128877

{% enddetails %}

If you are a custom integration developer and want to learn about changes and
new features available for your integration: Be sure to follow our
[developer blog][devblog]. The following are the most notable for this release:

- [Changes to the UnitOfConductivity enum](https://developers.home-assistant.io/blog/2024/10/08/unit-of-conductivity-changes)
- [Deprecating state constants for cover](https://developers.home-assistant.io/blog/2024/10/08/state-constants-cover-deprecation)
- [Extend deprecation period of hass.helpers](https://developers.home-assistant.io/blog/2024/10/09/extend-deprecation-hass-helpers)
- [New alarm control panel state property and state enum](https://developers.home-assistant.io/blog/2024/10/22/new-alarm-state-property)
- [New helpers and best practises for reauth and reconfigure flows](https://developers.home-assistant.io/blog/2024/10/21/reauth-reconfigure-helpers)

[devblog]: https://developers.home-assistant.io/blog/

## All changes

Of course, there is a lot more in this release. You can find a list of
all changes made here: [Full changelog for Home Assistant Core 2024.11](/changelogs/core-2024.11)
